here we will draw the egg-shaped
thalamus first draw its back-end and
then its front we leave it open so that
we will be able to label the interior
nuclei now let's draw the plane of
orientation of our drawing draw a
horizontal line label the front of it as
anterior and the back is posterior then
draw a vertical line label the top as
medial and the bottom is lateral now
draw the internal medullary lamina along
the anterior-posterior axis of the
thalamus just lateral to the internal
medullary lamina label the lateral
nuclear group and show that it connects
with the limbic system next wedge a
triangle in the anterior thalamus and
label it as the anterior nuclear group
which is involved in the important
memory circuit the Pape circuit show
that the anterior thalamic nucleus
projects to the cingulate gyrus then
label the ventral nuclear group and the
ventral lateral thalamus it is a widely
important relay group label the
constituents of this group from anterior
to posterior indicate that the ventral
anterior nucleus is involved in motor
skills and receives projections from the
basal ganglia then that the ventral
lateral nucleus is involved in
coordination and receives afferent
information from the contralateral
cerebellum and finally that the ventral
posterior nucleus projects to the
primary somatosensory area indicate the
ventral posterior medial nucleus encodes
input from the face and that the ventral
posterolateral nucleus encodes input
from the body the sensory information in
the thalamus has a very specific onion
peel somatosensory map in which the fist
is adjacent to the mouth patients with a
ventral posterior medial stroke present
with Kairo oral syndrome on the side
opposite the damaged that'ss they have
impaired sensation around the mouth and
in the fist now draw the medial
geniculate body and show that it is a
part of the
auditory system it receives auditory
information from the inferior colliculus
and projects to the transverse gyri of
Heschel in the insular cortex next draw
the lateral geniculate body and show
that it is involved in the visual system
visual information from the optic tract
relays in the lateral geniculate body
and projects to the primary visual
cortex in the posterior occipital lobe
and the posterior third of the thalamus
show the pulvinar which is a subcategory
of the lateral nuclear group indicate
that it connects with a visual attention
system in the pre tectal nucleus and the
cortical visual system in the temporal
parietal Association areas
ventral and posterior to the thalamus
itself labeled a posterior thalamic
nuclei group it comprises a widespread
conglomeration of nuclei here we will
only draw one tiny nucleus the posterior
nucleus which attaches to the posterior
tip of the thalamus show that it
projects to the secondary somatosensory
cortex and the inferior parietal lobe
which is involved in cortical processing
of pain and temperature sensation on the
medial aspect of the thalamus labeled a
medial nuclear group which largely
consists of the dorsal medial nucleus
show that the medial nuclear group
connects the limbic centers to the
frontal lobe it has a parent connections
from the amygdala hippocampus and basal
forebrain and efferent connections to
the prefrontal promoter and frontal eye
field regions of the frontal lobe now
show the internal medullary lamina
itself contains the intra laminar group
indicate that it has widespread inputs
and outputs involved in the maintenance
of arousal next draw the midline nuclear
group along the ventral medial portion
of the thalamus in the midline of the
central nervous system it is involved in
visceral function just as is its
neighbor the hypothalamus lastly write
out that the thalamic reticular nucleus
forms a shell around the thalamus and
indicate that it is a diffuse
modulatory nucleus that communicates
widely with the thalamus and cerebral
cortex if we were to draw the thalamic
reticular nucleus we would obstruct the
view of the rest of the thalamus this
concludes our drawing of the thalamus